# Apple_Sentiment_Analysis
Objective:
The aim of this project is:
“to design sentiment classification models to explore and identify the sentiments among textual data and interactive and informative visualization to effectively communicate the information”.
This will be implemented by using machine learning  and natural language processing techniques which enables the users to extract useful information and detect the unique trends and patterns in tweets by classifying them on the basis of sentiment score. Visual representation of X(Twitter) sentiments aids in monitoring the engagement and opinion of users by detecting the spikes in sentiments, making it easier for decision makers to act upon the information.
X data is mostly based on short text-based posts and it allows businesses to engage personally with consumers. However, there is huge amount of continuously increasing data on the platform that it is difficult for the businesses to analyse and prioritize the tweets. That is the reason why sentiment analysis is becoming a key instrument in analysing information and social media marketing. It is perfectly optimized for conveying information, some news, or an argument at an immense speed, making it extremely useful for business owners, politicians, celebrities, and journalists. Public opinion can be beneficial to corporations, businesses, governments and individuals in decision making and setting business strategies. This project holds potential applications in market research, social media monitoring and public opinion analysis. 
However the sentiment analysis and evaluation procedure faces numerous challenges and they can create impediments to accurately interpreting sentiments and determining the appropriate sentiment polarity. These challenges are discussed in the later section.


Planned Approach:
The project will focus on building a machine learning sentiment classification model, that will help in identifying trends and patterns in tweets by classifying them on the basis of sentiment score i.e positive and negative tweets. Pre-processing will be done thoroughly to clean the data to make analysis effective. Feature selection will be done by vectorizing the data and then the data will be split into test and train sets. Next step will be to build several ML models and train them where they will make predictions on the basis of training data. Once the model is ready, it is then tested on different metrics to evaluate its performance. Lastly I will analyse the tweet data using visualization libraries to extract interesting information.
